develop guide: add sample applications (nextjs and lambda) (#14532)
pingcap/docs: develop/dev-guide-sample-application-nextjs.md

2. In the pop-up window, confirm that the configuration is consistent with your runtime environment.

   - Endpoint Type is **Public**.
   - Connect With is **General**.
   - Operating System is your runtime environment.

   <Tip>If you are running in Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), switch to the corresponding Linux distribution.</Tip>

3. Click **Create Password** to generate a password.

   <Tip>If you have generated a password before, you can use the original password directly, or click **Reset Password** to generate a new password.</Tip>

4. Run the following command to copy and rename `.env.example` to `.env`:

   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

5. Copy and paste the corresponding connection string to `.env`. The following is an example:

   ```bash
   TIDB_HOST='{gateway-region}.aws.tidbcloud.com'
   TIDB_PORT='4000'
   TIDB_USER='{prefix}.root'
   TIDB_PASSWORD='{password}'
   TIDB_DB_NAME='test'
   ```

   Replace the placeholders in `{}` with the values obtained in the **Connect** window.

6. Save the file.

</div>

<div label="Self-hosted TiDB">

1. Run the following command to copy and rename `.env.example` to `.env`:

   ```bash

>    cp .env.example .env

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   cp .env.example .env
```
`cp` command may not work on windows.

https://superuser.com/questions/1709297/is-there-windows-copy-command-that-mimic-unix-cp-r-behavior

  > **Note**: In Node.js applications, you don't have to provide an SSL CA certificate, because Node.js uses the built-in [Mozilla CA certificate](https://wiki.mozilla.org/CA/Included_Certificates) by default when establishing the TLS (SSL) connection.

3. If you have not set a password yet, click **Create password** to generate a random password.

   <Tip>If you have generated a password before, you can use the original password directly, or click **Reset password** to generate a new password.</Tip>

4. Run the following command to copy and rename `.env.example` to `.env`:

   ```bash
   # Linux
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

   ```powershell
   # Windows
   Copy-Item ".env.example" -Destination ".env"
   ```

5. Copy and paste the corresponding connection string to `.env`. The following is an example:

   ```bash
   TIDB_HOST='{gateway-region}.aws.tidbcloud.com'
   TIDB_PORT='4000'
   TIDB_USER='{prefix}.root'
   TIDB_PASSWORD='{password}'
   TIDB_DB_NAME='test'
   ```

   Replace the placeholders in `{}` with the values obtained in the **Connect** window.

6. Save the file.

</div>

> <div label="Self-hosted TiDB">

Reviewer: using `TiDB Self-Hosted` instead, keep consistency with other documents.

---
title: Connect to TiDB by using mysql2 in Next.js

> summary: This article describes how to connect TiDB using mysql2 in Next.js and provides a simple example code snippet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
summary: This article describes how to build a CRUD application using TiDB and mysql2 in Next.js and provides a simple example code snippet.
```

   maxIdle: 1, // max idle connections, the default value is the same as `connectionLimit`
   enableKeepAlive: true
});
```

### Insert data

```javascript
const player = ['1', 1, 1];
await pool.execute(
  `INSERT INTO player (id, goods, coins) VALUES (${player[0]}, ${player[1]}, ${player[2]})`
);
```

Refer to [Insert data](/develop/dev-guide-insert-data.md) for more information.

### Query data

```javascript
const [rows] = await pool.execute('SELECT count(*) AS cnt FROM player');
console.log(rows[0]['cnt']);
```

Refer to [Query data](/develop/dev-guide-get-data-from-single-table.md) for more information.

### Update data

```javascript
const player = ['1', 10, 500];
await pool.execute(
  `UPDATE player SET goods = goods + ${play[0]}, coins = coins + ${play[1]} WHERE id = ${play[2]}`
);
```

Refer to [Update data](/develop/dev-guide-update-data.md) for more information.

### Delete data

```javascript
await pool.execute('DELETE FROM player WHERE id = 1');
```

Refer to [Delete data](/develop/dev-guide-delete-data.md) for more information.

## Considerations

> - It's recommended that using ORM frameworks to improve development efficiency in scenarios without a lot of complex SQL, such as [Sequelize](https://sequelize.org/), [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/) and [TypeORM](https://typeorm.io/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- It is recommended to use ORM frameworks like [Sequelize](https://sequelize.org/), [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/), and [TypeORM](https://typeorm.io/) to improve development efficiency in scenarios that do not involve a lot of complex SQL.
```

> - For more details about how to build a complex application with ORM and Next.js, see [our Bookshop Demo](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-prisma-vercel-demo).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For more details on how to build a complex application with ORM and Next.js, see [our Bookshop Demo](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-prisma-vercel-demo).
```

- [Node.js **18**](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) or later.
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads).
- A running TiDB cluster. 

If you don't have a TiDB cluster yet, you can create one using one of the following methods:

- (Recommended) Refer to [Create a TiDB Serverless cluster](/develop/dev-guide-build-cluster-in-cloud.md) to create your own TiDB Cloud cluster.
- Refer to [Deploy a local test TiDB cluster](/quick-start-with-tidb.md) or [Deploy a production TiDB cluster](/production-deployment-using-tiup.md) to create a local cluster.

## Run the sample application

This section illustrates how to run the sample application code and connect to TiDB. 

> **Note:**
>
> For complete code snippets and running instructions, refer to the [tidb-nextjs-vercel-quickstart](https://github.com/tidb-samples/tidb-nextjs-vercel-quickstart) GitHub repository.

### Step 1. Clone the sample application repository

Clone the repository to your local machine:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:tidb-samples/tidb-nextjs-vercel-quickstart.git
cd tidb-nextjs-vercel-quickstart
```

### Step 2. Install dependencies

Install the necessary dependencies:

```bash
npm install

> ```

Reviewer: Remind developers of dependencies that must be installed in their projects

   TIDB_PORT='4000'
   TIDB_USER='{prefix}.root'
   TIDB_PASSWORD='{password}'
   TIDB_DB_NAME='test'
   ```

   Replace the placeholders in `{}` with the values obtained in the **Connect** window.

6. Save the file.

</div>

<div label="TiDB Self-Hosted">

1. Copy and rename `.env.example` to `.env`:

   ```bash
   # Linux
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

   ```powershell
   # Windows
   Copy-Item ".env.example" -Destination ".env"
   ```

2. Copy and paste the corresponding connection string into `.env`. The following is an example:

   ```bash
   TIDB_HOST='{tidb_server_host}'
   TIDB_PORT='4000'
   TIDB_USER='root'
   TIDB_PASSWORD='{password}'
   TIDB_DB_NAME='test'
   ```

   Replace the placeholders in `{}` with the values obtained in the **Connect** window. If you are running TiDB on your local machine, the default Host address is `127.0.0.1` and the password is empty.

3. Save the file.

</div>

</SimpleTab>

### Step 4: Run the sample application locally

1. Start the application:

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

2. Open your browser and visit `http://localhost:3000`. (Check your terminal for the actual port number, and the default is `3000`.)

> 3. Click the `run SQL` button to execute the sample code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click **RUN SQL** to execute the sample code.
```

4. Check the output in the terminal. If the output is similar to the following, the connection is successful:

   ```json
   {
     "results": [
       {
         "Hello World": "Hello World"
       }
     ]
   }
   ```

## Sample code snippets

You can refer to the following sample code snippets to complete your own application development.

For complete sample code and how to run it, check out the [tidb-nextjs-vercel-quickstart](https://github.com/tidb-samples/tidb-nextjs-vercel-quickstart) repository.

### Connect to TiDB

```javascript
/** It's different from the sample code in the repository, which is for learning purposes only.

>  * Which is not recommended in production environment.

Reviewer: > * Which is not recommended in production environment.

Why?

> /** It's different from the sample code in the repository, which is for learning purposes only.
>  * Which is not recommended in production environment.
>  * Please refer to the code in [tidb-nextjs-vercel-quickstart](https://github.com/tidb-samples/tidb-nextjs-vercel-quickstart) GitHub repository for production environment.
>  */
> import mysql from 'mysql2';
> 
> pool = mysql.createPool({

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// lib/tidb.js
import mysql from 'mysql2';

const pool = mysql.createPool({
```

Put the code for establishing the connection in a separate file, like `lib/tidb.js`.

For example: https://github.com/steven-tey/dub/blob/main/lib/planetscale.ts

   host: process.env.TIDB_HOST, // TiDB host, for example: {gateway-region}.aws.tidbcloud.com
   port: process.env.TIDB_PORT || 4000, // TiDB port, default: 4000
   user: process.env.TIDB_USER, // TiDB user, for example: {prefix}.root
   password: process.env.TIDB_PASSWORD, // TiDB password
   database: process.env.TIDB_DATABASE || 'test', // TiDB database name, default: test

>    ssl: {
>    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
>    rejectUnauthorized: true,
>    },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ssl: {
       minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
       rejectUnauthorized: true,
   },
```

await pool.execute(
  `UPDATE player SET goods = goods + ${play[0]}, coins = coins + ${play[1]} WHERE id = ${play[2]}`
);
```

For more information, refer to [Update data](/develop/dev-guide-update-data.md).

### Delete data

```javascript
await pool.execute('DELETE FROM player WHERE id = 1');
```

For more information, refer to [Delete data](/develop/dev-guide-delete-data.md).

## Useful notes

- Using [connection pools](https://github.com/sidorares/node-mysql2#using-connection-pools) to manage database connections can reduce the performance overhead caused by frequently establishing and destroying connections.
- To avoid SQL injection, it is recommended to use [prepared statements](https://github.com/sidorares/node-mysql2#using-prepared-statements).
- In scenarios where there are not many complex SQL statements involved, using ORM frameworks like [Sequelize](https://sequelize.org/), [TypeORM](https://typeorm.io/), or [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/) can greatly improve development efficiency.

## Next steps

- For more details on how to build a complex application with ORM and Next.js, see [our Bookshop Demo](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-prisma-vercel-demo).

> - Learn more usage of `mysql2` from [the documentation of `mysql2`](https://github.com/sidorares/node-mysql2/tree/master/documentation/en).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Learn more usage of node-mysql2 driver from [the documentation of node-mysql2](https://github.com/sidorares/node-mysql2/tree/master/documentation/en).
```

2. In the connection dialog, select `General` from the **Connect With** dropdown and keep the default setting of the **Endpoint Type** as `Public`.

  > **Note**
  >
  > In Node.js applications, you do not have to provide an SSL CA certificate, because Node.js uses the built-in [Mozilla CA certificate](https://wiki.mozilla.org/CA/Included_Certificates) by default when establishing the TLS (SSL) connection.

3. If you have not set a password yet, click **Create password** to generate a random password.

  > **Tip**
  >
  > If you have generated a password before, you can use the original password directly, or click **Reset password** to generate a new password.   

4. Copy and rename `.env.example` to `.env`:

   ```bash
   # Linux
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

   ```powershell
   # Windows
   Copy-Item ".env.example" -Destination ".env"
   ```

5. Copy and paste the corresponding connection string into `.env`. The following is an example:

   ```bash
   TIDB_HOST='{gateway-region}.aws.tidbcloud.com'
   TIDB_PORT='4000'
   TIDB_USER='{prefix}.root'
   TIDB_PASSWORD='{password}'
   TIDB_DB_NAME='test'
   ```

>    Replace the placeholders in `{}` with the values obtained in the **Connect** window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Replace the placeholders in `{}` with the values obtained in the connection dialog.
```

   ```

   Replace the placeholders in `{}` with the values obtained in the **Connect** window. If you are running TiDB on your local machine, the default Host address is `127.0.0.1` and the password is empty.

3. Save the file.

</div>

</SimpleTab>

### Step 4: Run the sample application locally

1. Start the application:

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

2. Open your browser and visit `http://localhost:3000`. (Check your terminal for the actual port number, and the default is `3000`.)

3. Click **RUN SQL** to execute the sample code.

4. Check the output in the terminal. If the output is similar to the following, the connection is successful:

   ```json
   {
     "results": [
       {
         "Hello World": "Hello World"
       }
     ]
   }
   ```

## Sample code snippets

You can refer to the following sample code snippets to complete your own application development.

For complete sample code and how to run it, check out the [tidb-nextjs-vercel-quickstart](https://github.com/tidb-samples/tidb-nextjs-vercel-quickstart) repository.

### Connect to TiDB

```javascript
// src/lib/tidb.js
import mysql from 'mysql2';

let pool = null;

export function connect() {

>   pool = mysql.createPool({

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  return mysql.createPool({
```

    host: process.env.TIDB_HOST, // TiDB host, for example: {gateway-region}.aws.tidbcloud.com
    port: process.env.TIDB_PORT || 4000, // TiDB port, default: 4000
    user: process.env.TIDB_USER, // TiDB user, for example: {prefix}.root

>     password: process.env.TIDB_PASSWORD, // TiDB password

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    password: process.env.TIDB_PASSWORD, // The password of TiDB user.
```

For complete sample code and how to run it, check out the [tidb-nextjs-vercel-quickstart](https://github.com/tidb-samples/tidb-nextjs-vercel-quickstart) repository.

### Connect to TiDB

```javascript
// src/lib/tidb.js
import mysql from 'mysql2';

let pool = null;

export function connect() {
  return mysql.createPool({
    host: process.env.TIDB_HOST, // TiDB host, for example: {gateway-region}.aws.tidbcloud.com
    port: process.env.TIDB_PORT || 4000, // TiDB port, default: 4000
    user: process.env.TIDB_USER, // TiDB user, for example: {prefix}.root
    password: process.env.TIDB_PASSWORD, // The password of TiDB user.
    database: process.env.TIDB_DATABASE || 'test', // TiDB database name, default: test
    ssl: {
      minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
      rejectUnauthorized: true,
    },
    connectionLimit: 1, // Setting connectionLimit to "1" in a serverless function environment optimizes resource usage, reduces costs, ensures connection stability, and enables seamless scalability.
    maxIdle: 1, // max idle connections, the default value is the same as `connectionLimit`
    enableKeepAlive: true,
  });
}

> export function getConnection() {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export function getPool() {
```

Avoid ambiguity with `pool.getConnection` method

  if (!pool) {
    pool = createPool();
  }
  return pool;
}
```

### Insert data

> 

Reviewer: It would be nice to add a short code explanation for each example.

---
title: Connect to TiDB with mysql2 in Next.js
summary: This article describes how to build a CRUD application using TiDB and mysql2 in Next.js and provides a simple example code snippet.
---

# Connect to TiDB with mysql2 in Next.js

TiDB is a MySQL-compatible database, and [mysql2](https://github.com/sidorares/node-mysql2) is a popular open-source driver for Node.js.

In this tutorial, you can learn how to use TiDB and mysql2 in Next.js to accomplish the following tasks:

- Set up your environment.
- Connect to your TiDB cluster using mysql2.

> - Build and run your application. Optionally, you can find sample code snippets for basic CRUD operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Build and run your application. Optionally, you can find [sample code snippets](#sample-code-snippets) for basic CRUD operations.
```
